With these two words for our text today,
Jehovah brought Tabitha, or Dorcas,
back to life.
And as our commentators also pointed out,
the resurrection of the dead has to be
one of the most amazing miracles
mentioned in the Bible.
The restoration of a human body,
or the formation of a new body,
and then the putting of the memories
and everything that was that person
back into it
is just an amazing demonstration
of the power of chemistry
and biology and physics
—what Jehovah understands
about life and the universe—
in a way that is just amazing to us.
Of course, we’re amazed by modern technology,
maybe smartphones and computers
and modern medicine,
but those things pale in comparison
when we think
about the power and understanding
that it takes for Jehovah
to resurrect a human being.
In fact, for many people,
the idea of the resurrection of the dead
really seems far-fetched
—maybe it’s the stuff of science fiction,
or maybe they may even think
it is just wishful thinking.
So how can we build our faith and confidence
in the resurrection
and help others to have faith and confidence
in this wonderful hope as well?
Well, we’ll discuss just a couple of ways.
First, we can reason it out by meditating
on Jehovah’s creative power and who he is.
Let’s consider a couple of examples of men
that reasoned that Jehovah
must be capable of the resurrection,
even though there hadn’t been
any resurrections up to that point.
Let’s consider Abraham.
If we look at Hebrews 11:19,
when Jehovah had asked him
to offer up Isaac,
his son, as a sacrifice,
notice how he reasoned.
Hebrews 11:19:
“But he reasoned that God was able
to raise him up even from the dead,
“and he did receive him from there
in an illustrative way.”
Yes, Abraham was able to reason on the fact
that Jehovah was the Creator
and the fact that he had
restored Sarah’s reproductive powers.
He had resurrected, basically,
her ability to have children.
He concluded that even if he should
follow through with sacrificing Isaac,
that Jehovah could and would
bring him back from the dead.
Well, that knowledge
certainly would have strengthened him
and strengthened his resolve to do something
that must have been
an extremely difficult thing to ask a father
—to put, basically, his son to death.
But that hope, that strength of resolve,
that he had was bolstered by the fact
that he understood Jehovah
could bring him back from the dead.
He reasoned on it.
Or Job—he believed in the resurrection.
At Job 14:14, 15,
notice how Job reasons
on Jehovah’s capability.
Job 14:14, 15:
“If a man dies, can he live again?
“I will wait all the days
of my compulsory service
“until my relief comes.
“You will call, and I will answer you.
You will long for the work of your hands.”
So we keep in mind
that Job wrote these words
after the death of his ten children.
Now, the pain and suffering
of having just one child die,
for parents, is really tragic.
But ten children
—that’s an unbelievable burden of grief.
But Job reasoned that if he, as their father,
missed his ten children so much,
he was sure that Jehovah also longed for them
and missed them as well.
Even though he had ten more children later,
we can be sure that Job was looking forward
to seeing his other dead, lost children
in the resurrection.
Now, that’s the first way
of just reasoning on Jehovah’s capability
—knowing who he is and understanding
that he has the capability
to perform resurrections.
The second way is reading accounts
of actual resurrections in the Bible.
There were nine recorded resurrections
in the Bible.
Elijah resurrected a child.
Elisha resurrected a child.
Elisha resurrected a man
even after he was dead;
a man got thrown on his dead bones
and got resurrected.
Jesus resurrected the widow of Nain’s son
and Jairus’ daughter,
and then also Jesus resurrected Lazarus.
And then we have Jehovah resurrecting Jesus.
And then we have Peter resurrecting Tabitha,
or Dorcas, in our text for today.
And then we have Paul
resurrecting young Eutychus.
Now, if we look at these resurrections,
we learn several things from them.
Some children were resurrected
(which is certainly comforting for parents
who’ve lost children)
and some older ones,
like Tabitha and Lazarus.
One resurrection was done by dead bones.
The prophet wasn’t even there,
so no one could claim he worked that one out.
So the purpose of the miracles
of the resurrection recorded in the Bible
was to really build faith
that Jehovah and Jesus
can and will perform resurrections.
I really like the way the apostle Paul
says at Acts 17:31
that Jesus’ resurrection
“provided a guarantee to all men.”
It’s like by recording those resurrections
in the Bible,
Jehovah is saying:
‘I guarantee that I can do this.
Not only can you reason on it,
but I’m demonstrating that I can do this.’
See, if death is really like
the Pause button on a remote,
then the resurrection by Jehovah
is like him pressing the Play button
to resume their life.
So we can reason on the fact that Jehovah
has the creative ability and the ability
(like for Abraham and Job)
to perform resurrections.
And we can read about the actual
resurrections that Jehovah performed.
Both of these give us knowledge
and faith in the resurrection.
But how does knowledge and faith
in the resurrection hope
actually help us today?
Well, knowledge gives us
power and strength and courage.
To illustrate, one day as a young boy,
I was out in the field ministry
and I was going up to a door
and this ferocious dog
came from out of nowhere
—just teeth and all coming right at me—
and I ran for my life.
And I got a little ways from him,
and I hear this “thunk.”
And I realized,
‘Oh, that sounds like a chain.’
I turned around and, sure enough,
he was chained right there.
He couldn’t go any further.
Well, now, with the knowledge that he
was chained and couldn’t go any further,
I could walk semicourageously
up to the door and give my presentation.
See, Satan snarls; he barks; he threatens.
But in the end, Jehovah limits him,
like a strong chain, as to what he can do.
I mean, even if Satan succeeds in killing us
before the end of this system or if we die
before the end of this old system,
Jehovah gives us
the hope of the resurrection.
He lets us know that ferocious death
cannot cause us or our loved ones
any permanent harm.
Any harm caused by death is temporary.
It’s like that Pause on the remote,
and Jehovah can easily just press Play.
Today’s text is only two words,
but it has tremendous power.
I want you to try this
and see how it makes you feel.
Instead of today’s text saying,
“Tabitha, rise,”
I’d like you to put the name of a person
that you really want to see come back
in the resurrection
alive once more and hear Jesus say,
“(Your mother’s name), rise.”
“(Your father), rise.”
“(Your beloved husband or wife), rise.”
Our text for today may only be two words.
But what hope and courage they give us!